BITFORGE — TEACHER GUIDE (REVISION 3)

Open Bitforge.html in a modern browser. This self-contained version needs no
installation, account, or internet connection. Download the file first if your
classroom system blocks HTML previews. The hosted edition remains private
until you change its sharing settings.

THE STORY AND REWARDS
In the fictional year 2149, the Overseer AI controls the world and its internet.
Students join a resistance rebuilding a human-controlled network. Verified
recovery tasks restore controller/server access, letting the team recover
components from maintenance caches and intel about captured infrastructure.
Components fund site equipment and recovery tools; intel unlocks access routes
and optional tools. Working uplink modules come only from workstation recoveries. No network harvesting or idle payouts occur. The
animated dots on reclaimed links represent resistance packet traffic.

LEARNING PATH
1. Deadlight relay: 4-bit binary, place values, encoding and decoding.
2. Cache district: 8-bit values from 0 to 255.
3. Address docks: IPv4 octets and their binary representations.
4. Mask checkpoint: CIDR prefixes, subnet masks, and host-bit counts.
5. Subnet frontier: network/broadcast addresses, host capacity, subnet sizing.
6. Overseer core: layer responsibilities and incident diagnosis, covering all
   seven layers. The guide distinguishes the OSI model from real protocol stacks.

Binary place-value labels and the live decimal total are shown for the first
four repairs in each introductory binary sector. They then disappear. IP and
mask exercises start without them. Reveal place values restores help for the
current question only; that completion is recorded as assisted. Hints never
reduce the cache reward. Hidden labels also stay hidden in screen-reader names.

Every two completed repairs restores a relay. Six qualifies for the next site;
eight completes all four relays in a sector. Opening a new site costs intel, components, and one uplink module from the
previous sector’s workstation mission. Restore all 24 relays, complete all six
workstation missions, then install one final module plus 300 components and
complete the six-task final uplink to finish the campaign. Practice continues afterward.
The normal campaign is untimed. Dispatch sprints are optional.

REQUIRED WORKSTATION RECOVERIES
Six fictional recovery orders build from command-line basics to troubleshooting:
1. Navigate folders, read job.txt, inspect IP configuration, test the gateway.
2. Diagnose and reconnect a disconnected cable.
3. Recover from a failed DHCP lease and test the local server.
4. Diagnose a wrong default gateway; local traffic still works.
5. Fix DNS when an IP address works but the hostname does not.
6. Restore an HTTP service even though its host responds to ping.

One case opens per sector, after the previous case is complete. These missions
are free to access. Each verified case pays components, one intel, and one
uplink module exactly once; replays are practice. Modules cannot be farmed
with binary exercises or spent on optional upgrades. Completion requires inspection, repair, and verification.
Up/Down recalls typed commands. Reference buttons insert commands without
executing them. Case hints are available.

dir, cd, type, ipconfig, ping, tracert, route print, nslookup, and curl use a
limited Windows-style teaching subset. repair, configure, and submit are
explicitly labeled GAME-ONLY actions, not real operating-system commands.
The terminal never launches a shell, reads local files, or contacts networks.

CLASSROOM PROMPTS
- Explain why 11111111 is 255, not 256.
- Convert a value after hiding the place-value labels.
- Explain why a /26 has 64 total addresses but 62 conventional usable hosts.
- Why can a local server respond when the default gateway is wrong?
- What evidence separates a DNS fault from a connectivity fault?
- Why does a successful ping not prove the website is working?
- Identify the OSI layer by the function, rather than by a memorized keyword.

SAVE FILES AND REPORTS
Progress autosaves in the current browser when storage is available. Export a
save before moving/renaming a local HTML file or changing devices, because
file-based storage behavior varies by browser. Settings supports JSON export,
confirmed import/replace, and confirmed reset. Shared browsers have one save.

Revision 1 and 2 saves migrate automatically. Revision 2 retains unlocked
sectors, balances, terminal completions, and completed campaigns. Purchased
Routing/DNS/Service casebooks refund their original costs because access is
now free. Previously completed recoveries grant their modules without paying
a second component reward. Existing sites do not require retroactive hardware.
Unfinished campaigns require all six terminal recoveries before the finale.

For revision 1 saves: Existing balances become components
and intel without loss. Binary, IP, mask, and subnet progress
are retained and reordered. Logic-gate progress is retired; OSI starts fresh.
Removed drone/scanner upgrades refund their intel cost. Relay amplifiers
refund the components spent on them. Existing balances and retained upgrades stay.
The final uplink resets because the new OSI content must be completed.

Classroom exports a CSV of repair completions, first-try unassisted completions,
attempts, restored relays, hint-assisted work, and terminal case completion.
Reports are practice evidence, not secure assessments or a central gradebook.
Students can edit local saves; progress is not sent to a server.

ACCESS AND SCOPE
Use mouse/touch, or Tab and Space. Enter submits typed answers and commands.
Sound is opt-in. Reduced motion is supported. Relay inspection has a dropdown.
Subnet exercises cover /24–/30 inside a /24. /31 and /32 have different rules
and are explicitly outside the campaign. OSI is a conceptual reference model;
actual implementations, especially upper-layer protocols, do not always fit
one layer neatly.

EDITABLE SOURCE
Bitforge-source.zip contains dist/, package.json, tests.mjs, and bundle.mjs.
Serve dist/ with a static host. For local development:
  python -m http.server 8765 --directory dist
Open http://localhost:8765. With Node installed, run node tests.mjs.
The Field guide links the Cisco and Microsoft learning references.

RESOURCE ECONOMY
Signal rewards: 4 / 6 / 8 / 10 / 12 / 14 components by sector, plus one intel.
Workstation caches: 90 / 120 / 160 / 210 / 270 / 340 components, each with
one intel and one uplink module.
New site costs: 80 / 110 / 140 / 180 / 230 components; 4 / 5 / 6 / 7 / 8 intel;
one module each. Final uplink: 300 components and one module, paid once.
Leaving or resuming the finale never charges equipment again.
A fresh campaign can fund the full route with its 48 normal signals and six
recoveries, without extra grinding. Optional upgrades create spending choices.
Students who spend too much can always earn components and intel through
additional signal practice. Mistakes and hints do not consume resources.

BROWSER COMPATIBILITY
Designed for current Chrome, Firefox (including on Kali Linux), Edge, and
Safari. JavaScript must be enabled. No extensions, installs, terminal access,
or experimental browser features are required for gameplay. The Windows-style
terminal is a fictional simulation independent of the host operating system.
The offline HTML includes its scripts and styles without module imports or
external font dependencies. Browser storage may be limited in private mode;
export a save to retain progress. Hosted access permissions are unchanged.
Validation: Chromium UI tests plus standards compatibility review. Firefox
on Kali was not directly available in this testing environment.
